hey folks this is Terry this is our
proto school community call for the week
of December it's December 5th and we
have a few updates for you today and
stuff we've been plugging away at and as
usual plenty of time to answer questions
um so let's see what we have for you
today so on the content front we have
third kind of four four fronts in the
proto school effort so in terms of
developing content there are a couple of
things that we've done recently one is
that I went through and updated
resources pages to add some of the
content from my PFS camp in particular
that session on understanding how ipfs
deals with files that was hosted by Alan
and Michael so you'll see a lot of the
resources pages where it's relevant have
links out to that one now and we will in
the future be adding some of that
content into protocol lessons or new
tutorials but for now just kind of
reaching out and getting getting out to
the content in the format that it exists
and then Jill and I are both working on
going through a lot of the other content
from my PFS camp to create a plan for
how we can be using it so my hope is
that in q1 we'll be able to add a couple
of new tutorials or add images or
interesting descriptions to existing
tutorials where maybe a lesson could be
more clear so there are a lot of ways
that we can see using that content and
we'll be working that on that as we move
forward and also if anybody missed our
last meeting last month right before it
Jill publish that new tutorial on the
the files API not the mutable file
system but the rest of the kind of
top-level commands for dealing with
files and ipfs so that is out there from
about a month ago if anybody wants to
take a look at that one great new
content for anybody who's leaving
chapters to share and then we have a few
things that are more on sort of the user
experience feature side some under the
hood work so one thing that also relates
side PFS camp content is that in that
session on understanding files Allen
Shaw share
a tool called the CID inspector which
people can find at CID ipfs IO where you
paste in the CID and it kind of breaks
down how it's made up like the multi
hash and all the different parts and
what version it is and all of that stuff
this it's a really cool tool and the
thing that we changed in proto school
previously if you did a code exercise
and the result was a CID there was a way
to click and see that CID see those
contents in the IP OD Explorer and now
you'll find both the link to the IP o
the Explorer and a link to the CID
inspector so it will take that CID that
was the result and open it up there and
kind of dig into the anatomy of that CID
and what it all means so that's a cool
just little tweak across the whole site
that you'll see now if you go back to
any of the existing lessons and you'll
see that moving forward as well and then
jill has been spending a lot of time
under the hood lately fixing validation
stuff so this next one on our list is
fixing a time out issue so Dan shields
of our Denver chapter caught an issue
where things were just completely
hanging and Jill figured out where to
set figured out why that was happening
which was that the if a CID was not
available on ipfs whether it had never
been there or just wasn't being shared
by anyone right now so he used to time
out to make it so that that won't hang
and we'll get a really useful error
message I created a new issue template
for reporting validation errors which
goes in with this whole effort of making
feedback more useful and Jill do you
want to talk a little bit about Alex's
PR and the work that you've been doing
on that one which is also related to
error handling sure so we had another
error that has been taking some of our
time under the hood so basically just
trying to find the issue again so items
say anything right we as some
implementation changes on how the
validation is being done and how the the
creator of the tutorial if he has to if
they have to actually do the error
handling or not and so at this stage on
the the PR that we have still hasn't
been merged but in the future the way
that the validation will be done is that
the creator of the tutorial won't have
to specifically handle the the errors
that could come from the user code so
that's already handles from
from the from the protocol co-pilot
come on yeah so a lot of meta error
stuff errors in how we handle errors
that work we're dealing with now and the
main goal is to really provide more
meaningful feedback to people prevent
them from getting into this kind of hung
state in the middle of validating their
code kind of distinguish between
different types of errors as we go and
so we have a few like this PR that Alex
CDs put in which jill has been tweaking
a bit is just about ready to go we're
just waiting for one last look from Alex
and then we'll be pushing that but it
won't be noticeable to the user unless
they have a good experience with an
error that they would have had a bad
experience with previously and then we
have a few other tweaks that we'll be
doing as we move forward just to make it
a little bit easier to automatically
like if you hit a validation error it's
really helpful for us to know what code
you put in that we failed to plan ahead
for that case that you could have made
that specific mistake so making it
easier to just pass along the code that
someone has filled in in their browser
and magically pop it into an issue if
there are things like that that we have
in our issue queue that would be little
tweaks that we hope to make moving
forward so one of our users who came to
offline camp found and fixed a problem
that is embarrassing that we missed
which is that there's a entire lesson in
the last lesson in em FS was set up
wrong in the router it had a wrong
number in it so the the lesson has been
skipping from it's not noticeable if you
click like if you just click Next to get
places what's going through lesson 10
and then skipping to the resources page
because it doesn't know that lesson 11
existed and if you went to the URL that
should be less than 11 it wouldn't be
there so we have this thank you to John
for that fix and then do you want to
chat a little bit about the audit that
you're working on Joe I know it's not
quite done but just a quick a quick
recap of what you're attempting to do
yeah sure so basically the goal of this
endeavor is to see if there's any
platform
that's a good fit for the content we
have on pro school and it would allow us
to migrate the content to that platform
and we wouldn't be working as much on
the quality of the platform where the
content disaster and we could dedicate
more time on the content development
itself from what I've been looking at we
haven't yet found any potential
candidates for that there seems to be a
lack of open source options for building
tutorials and life coding exercises it's
also a difficult keyword search because
every time that I search I end up going
to the most popular learning platforms
like EDX and Kevin means stuff like that
so we're still spending some more time
with that but eventually we'll have to
to decide on either keep going with the
platforms that we already have or
migrate to another one yeah and our goal
is to try to wrap that up wrap that
research up this week unless we hit on
something that looks like super
promising in which case we can dedicate
more time but the ability to have ipfs
validation under the hood and to be able
to embed whatever that tool is in our
own site as those things are both really
important to us and to be able to keep
doing in browser exercises so and we
shall see we'll have an update at our
next meeting about where we landed on
that but that's something that we
certainly plan to wrap up the
investigation this quarter that audit
this quarter so I think that's mostly
what we have on kind of that learner
experience kind of UX under the hood
making things work well on the community
side there are a couple of updates that
are relevant to chapter leaders which
are kind of things in progress we're
continuing to work on them but there's
some great progress already made
so if you go now to our actually I will
open this up and so this is the
resources in the organizing repo and
then the resources document we now have
this section on presentation materials
and digital assets so what the goal is
here a lot of the people who are leading
protocol chapters are doing a great job
of using our tutorial content live which
is which is exactly the idea that's what
we want them to be doing but we
recognize that we don't have a ton of
content yet and there's other stuff that
they could be teaching about ipfs or Lib
PDP or other related technologies and
some of them would like to present some
content in different formats whether
that's someone who's leading a proto
school group or someone who's leading an
ipfs meetup or whatever the case may be
so what I've been trying to do is
encourage the teams on specific projects
like ipfs to make available some
materials like introductory slide decks
about their projects that people are
comfortable having shared and adapted so
for example if you're on this page on
protocol you can jump over to this is
the IP FS community website and there's
a section there now on ipfs event
materials so for example there's a slide
deck on how ipfs works
with a recording so you could use that
slide deck and adapt it for a fact that
you're giving but have a recording so
you could see Stephen Alan who did the
first version of it present it and kind
of get comfortable with the material
yourself if you were a chapter leader
and we'll be continuing to update these
things the reason that we're keeping
them on each of these sites is to make
sure that they're available to people
who don't know about proto school but
are excited about the ipfs community for
example so having kind of a central
point of truth for each of these
projects and then kind of pointing to
them from the proto school repo so just
trying to get things in
in different formats and one second let
me find my way back to my notes
somewhere
[Music]
I'm trapped in fullscreen on my browser
so I anything yeah can you tell me
what's next in the call notes Joe forgot
I was muted yeah after the community
worth we have project management but we
don't have any anything oh sorry there's
what there's more stuff in the community
growth section so I think the other
thing that I wanted to mention is that
we have an outstanding issue there's
there other resources that we're hoping
to create for chapter leaders or people
teaching ipfs or whatever more generally
one of them is that we're trying to
create just a template a proto school
template slide deck that you could use
to create slides for your protocol
meetups we have a version right now but
the color contrast isn't great so we're
doing some work to improve the
accessibility of that before we share it
but we hope to have sort of a default
generic protocol slide deck that people
can use and adapt available soon and
then the other request I'm trying to
check in with Dan
Kevin Stefan who led the session on
leading chapters and leading events at
ipfs camp they had a lot of great
content about like what is the process
of taking a tutorial that's meant for
people to interact with on the website
and teaching that live in a room so the
goal is to create some written material
that would help people through that
process that would be relevant both to
people who are leading proto school
chapters um but also tip someone who
wanted to for example they were
attending an event about the web and
wanted to just lead a workshop there
they're not running a chapter but they
have this one-time opportunity to teach
the content and just some tips that
would help them like what do I need in
the room how many instructors do I need
for the number of attendees how do I
make this work
and so get me some written documentation
on that so
a few issues there you'll find a link in
the meeting notes to that if anybody
wants to volunteer to help out with
creating those materials it would be
great and the hope is that we'll see how
the timing plays out but once we have
that kind of package of all of these
resources put together we'll we'll make
sure we get some coms out about it maybe
write a blog post about a lot of these
resources that are available to people
not just we'll probably post it on the
ipfs blog so not just for people who are
doing proto school but for people who
are interested in sharing teaching ipfs
in general making them more aware of
those resources that exist we also have
a few we have interest from a few more
spots we have some folks in Korea and I
think it's Lagos is the other one that's
in that list folks who are eager to
start sharing proto school content so
I'm working them yeah anything else in
there Joe that I'm forgetting no no
that's that's it yeah what else what's
uh what's going on in Tokyo anything new
and exciting oh yeah
not from Tokyo but one of my friends
from Korea made a chapter request the
request and a really quite that you are
working on some improving
leadership model and he is eager to know
more about what the current status of
this yes and I am I'm still I am still
doing my research to make sure I don't
make a move in the wrong direction but
part of it relates to that the thing I
just mentioned about making it easier
for people to post events one-off
thinking about whether we should be
shifting a little bit more towards an
event specific model as opposed to a
chapter a chapter specific model and
that might also make it easier like we
have to to request in from Korea right
now so something that would allow
multiple folks or existing groups in a
place to all be using our content along
with other content which is the way I
think things are actually playing out
in practice so I'm just going I'm going
through repos and making sure that my
assumptions are right about how people
are actually using proto school content
right now and how they're actually
running groups but I think that I will
find that a shift would be helpful so I
will be less cagey about that as soon as
I've completed that review but I will I
am I am very aware of the requests in
the queue all right thank you okay yeah
anything else people want to chat about
today
[Music]
all right yeah cool it's good to see
everyone and we will see everyone should
be the first week in January I believe
but I'll update that issue for this call
with a new date and I will share the
link to the video and our meeting notes
so people can review at their leisure if
they weren't able to make it today so I
think that's it for us for this week I
hope everybody has a nice holiday season
before we see you again and we'll see
you soon bye thank you bye bye